# wooden-music-visualizer
Some simple python code to visualize your music as you've seen in my youtube video.

## Documentation
With this script you can turn any audio file into a video containing a spectrografic visualization of the sound displayed with wooden blocks.
The inner working is the following:
- Audio files are opened and processed with librosa to obtain spectrographic data using the provided short time fourier transform.
- A simple optimization method tries to find the best parameters for stft.
- The data generated by librosa is reshaped in a number of frequency bands and "display" segments for each band congruent with the image data provided in /assets/img/.
- Frames are generated sticking transparent images for the various segments on top a fixed background.
- All the generated frames are combined together into a video using an external call to ffmpeg.
- The newly made video and the original audio are combined together also using ffmpeg.

et voilà

## Installation
The script is stand alone, but it needs some python dependencies, such as librosa, numpy, scipy ecc.

I think you can just install librosa via PyPI and all of the needed dependencies should come with it.

```
pip install librosa
```
You also need ffmpeg for all the video related stuff.

## Usage and testing

After downloading the repository, using the software should be as easy as

```
python3 visualizer.py path/to/your/audio/file 
```

You can test if everything is working by trying to generate a video from a test file using:

```
python3 visualizer.py ./assets/sweep.mp3
```

Some command line arguments to change some default parameters are also provided, you can chech them out in the help

```
python3 visualizer.py --help
```

It's also possible to modify the same parameters (and some other) directly from the script file.

## Disclaimer
------------

I'm not a skilled programmer by any means. I'm self taught and this was just a little project to celebrate my first 100 subcribers on YouTube.
I cannot guarantee that any of the software is going to work on your machine. Also run it at your own risk, I'm not resposible for any possibile damage it can make.
I wrote the code and tested it on a linux machine running python 3.8.6. I haven't used any linux specific code, but I don't know if it will run on windows. Feel free to try it and file a bug report if it is not working.

You can do whatever you want with the resulting videos. You can also modify the code in any way or use the code with your own images.
If you are going to use it it would be a nice touch to credit me as the original author.

Being a non coder I'm sure that my code is hacky and ugly, so if you want to suggest improvements or patch problems you're very welcome to contribute.

Discussion
----------

Please direct non-development questions and discussion topics to the comment section of [the original video](link).
You can also message me privately by mail or on instagram @whydontyoubuildit
